Add content to getting started secure baseline page (#2313)
giantswarm/docs: src/content/getting-started/secure-your-app/_index.md

---

Giant Swarm platform is secured by default. The workload clusters are configured with security best practices in mind. The core functionality is built based on a policy enforcement engine. The `Kubernetes` project comes with [`Pod Security Standards (PSS)`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/security/pod-security-standards/) to ensure that the pods are running with the least privilege. The main problem of this technology is settings are cluster-wide and it's hard to create exceptions for specific workloads.

For that reason, the platform comes with an extended policy engine, `Kyverno`. A part of enforce the common pod security standards, your clusters have additional policies which can be customized to your needs. Your developers can create exceptions for their workloads without compromising the security of the cluster.

In this guide, you will learn how to make your application compliant with the secure baseline and how create policy exceptions when needed.

## Requirements

Before start, you need a running workload cluster. If you don't have one, please first [create a workload cluster]({{< relref "/getting-started/provision-your-first-workload-cluster" >}}).

> A part, you need to deploy an application, here `hello-world` application is used, to the workload cluster. For explanation on how to deploy the application please read the [previous step]({{< relref "/getting-started/install-an-application" >}}).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a next step, you need to deploy an application, here the `hello-world` application, to the workload cluster. For explanation on how to deploy the application please read the [previous step]({{< relref "/getting-started/install-an-application" >}}).
```

## Step 1: Understand the security baseline

> By default the clusters come with a `restricted` set of policies. You can read more about which policies are part of the `restricted` set in the [upstream documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/security/pod-security-standards/#restricted). The `restricted` set of policies are applied to all the namespaces in the cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, clusters come with a `restricted` set of policies. You can read more about which policies are part of the `restricted` set in the [upstream documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/security/pod-security-standards/#restricted). The `restricted` set of policies are applied to all the namespaces in the cluster.
```

I would like to add somewhere here some reference to our own docs:
https://docs.giantswarm.io/vintage/advanced/security/security-policy-enforcement/#default-policies

> By default the clusters come with a `restricted` set of policies. You can read more about which policies are part of the `restricted` set in the [our documentation]({{< relref "/vintage/advanced/security/security-policy-enforcement/#default-policies" >}}). The `restricted` set of policies are applied to all the namespaces in the cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default the clusters come with a `restricted` set of policies that apply to all the namespaces in the cluster. You can read more about which policies are part of the `restricted` set in [Default policies]({{< relref "/vintage/advanced/security/security-policy-enforcement/#default-policies" >}}).
```

As brief summary, the `restricted` set of policies includes:

> - Containers only can run with `non-root` users

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Containers can only run with `non-root` users
```

- Not allowing privileged containers
- Not allowing host namespaces
- Allowing only a set of capabilities (indeed, only `NET_BIND_SERVICE` is allowed)
- `HostPath` volumes aren't allowed
- Only default `Seccomp` and `AppArmor` profiles are allowed
- `ReadOnlyRootFilesystem` is enforced

> In case you application needs to use any of the features that aren't allowed by the `restricted` policies, you need to create a policy exception.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In case your application needs to use any of the features that aren't allowed by the `restricted` policies, you need to create a policy exception.
```

## Step 2:  Configure the security context

> In the `hello-world` application, the `restricted` policies aren't violated. The application is running with a `non-root` user and it's not using any special capability of the system.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the `hello-world` application, the `restricted` policies aren't violated. The application is running with a `non-root` user and it's not using any special capability of the system (e.g. access to raw sockets).
```

> In `Kubernetes`, the security context is defined in the `Pod` resource. Even you don't need a special security configuration, you still need to a minimal security context to your `Pod` resource. Inside the `Pod` resource, you find a general `securityContext` which are applied to all the containers within the resource. A part, you can define a `securityContext` for each container.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In `Kubernetes`, the security context is defined in the `Pod` resource. Even if you don't need a special security configuration, you still need to add a minimal security context to your `Pod` resource. Inside the `Pod` manifest, you will find a general `securityContext` which is applied to all the containers within the resource. Additionally, you can define a `securityContext` for each container.
```

Inspecting the `hello-world` application, you can see pods are created without general `securityContext` but with a `securityContext` for the container.

```yaml
spec:
  containers:
  - name: hello-world

>     ...

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    # [...]
```

to allow rendered docs to contain valid, colored YAML

    securityContext:
      allowPrivilegeEscalation: false
      capabilities:
        drop:
        - ALL
      runAsNonRoot: true
      runAsUser: 1000
      seccompProfile:
        type: RuntimeDefault
```

Those are necessary to be compliant and pass the validation of the policy engine.

## Step 3:  Create a policy exception

> Let's decide the `hello-world` application needs to run as a `root` user because the container image is designed to run as a `root` user you don't have more time and your CTO is pushing you to deploy the application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let’s assume the `hello-world` application needs to run as a `root` user because the container image is designed this way. You don't have more time and your CTO is pushing you to deploy the application.
```

> Let’s assume the `hello-world` application needs to run as a `root` user because the container image is designed this way. You don't have more time and your CTO is pushing you to deploy the application.

Reviewer 2: Not sure if this example with the CTO gives a strange message or not. Maybe someone has a strong opinion here. I'd rather leave out mentioning a potential reader of the docs.

> 

Reviewer 2: Note to self – I reviewed until here

> First, you need to modify the deployment to configure the `securityContext` to allow the container to run as a `root` user.

Reviewer 2: Do we want to show this in the hello-world-app way (edit Helm values in config map), edit the `Deployment`, or leave it unexplained how to edit?

```yaml
spec:
  containers:
  - name: hello-world
    ...
    securityContext:
      allowPrivilegeEscalation: false
      capabilities:
        drop:
        - ALL
      runAsNonRoot: false
      runAsUser: 0
      seccompProfile:
```

When you try to deploy the application, the policy engine will block the deployment with a message like:

```text
require-run-as-non-root-user:
  autogen-run-as-non-root-user: 'validation error: Running as root is not allowed.
    The fields spec.securityContext.runAsUser, spec.containers[*].securityContext.runAsUser,
    spec.initContainers[*].securityContext.runAsUser, and spec.ephemeralContainers[*].securityContext.runAsUser
    must be unset or set to a number greater than zero. rule autogen-run-as-non-root-user
    failed at path /spec/template/spec/containers/0/securityContext/runAsUser/'
```

It works as expected. Now, it's time to create a policy exception. Depending on your platform team the policy has to be approved before it's applied to the cluster. In this guide, we will assume the policy is approved.

> In the platform, there is an extended API, `PolicyException`, to abstract the policy definition from the policy engine. If the underlaying policy engine is changed, the `PolicyException` resource will be still valid. In our scenario, the resource looks like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the platform, there is an extended `PolicyException` API to abstract the policy exception definition from the policy engine. If the underlaying policy engine is ever changed, the `PolicyException` resource will be still valid. In our scenario, the resource looks like:
```

```yaml
apiVersion: policy.giantswarm.io/v1alpha1
kind: PolicyException
metadata:
  name: hello-world-allow-root
  namespace: policy-exceptions
spec:
  policies:
  - require-run-as-non-root-user
  - require-run-as-nonroot
  targets:
  - kind: Deployment
    names:
    - hello-world*
    namespaces:
    - default
```

This policy is translated to the policy engine as:

```yaml
apiVersion: kyverno.io/v2beta1
kind: PolicyException
metadata:
  name: hello-world-allow-root
  namespace: policy-exceptions
spec:
  exceptions:
  - policyName: require-run-as-non-root-user
    ruleNames:
    - run-as-non-root-user
    - autogen-run-as-non-root-user
    - autogen-cronjob-run-as-non-root-user
  ...
  match:
    any:
    - resources:
        kinds:
        - Deployment
        - Pod
        names:
        - hello-world*
        namespaces:
        - default
```

> Note that the exception is created in the `policy-exceptions` namespace. This decision is made consciously to separate exceptions from workloads resources. This allows the security team to approve exceptions independently.

Author: @fhielpos WDYT now? I dont want to explain too much about the policy exception flow you would like to pursue

> Note that the exception is created in the `policy-exceptions` namespace. The main reason behind this is to separate the policy exceptions from the workload resources, and the same time those can exists and be approved by security team before they're applied to the cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that the exception is created in the `policy-exceptions` namespace. The main reason behind this is to separate the policy exceptions from the workload resources, and at the same time those can exist and be approved by security team before they're applied to the cluster.
```

Something feels weird here though
